mmm
[Music]
as you may be able to tell we have taken
performance people on the road we've
ditched Wimbledon for the English
Countryside and for the once tranquil
Village of chadlington in the Cotswolds
you've got it we're at Dilly squat Farm
where Jeremy Clarkson has become TV host
farmer and all around Lord of The Manor
and in a fit of generosity he's given
Caleb the morning off tractoring so he
can join the conversation
these two performance people have become
farming royalty
[Music]
we're going to start this episode we're
going to go back 10 years
Georgia you know this story Caleb you
don't for the audience
yeah
Jeremy you and I was last time we did
anything in front of the cameras we're
in New Zealand yeah and we had this race
you're in a Rent A Wreck yeah I think
roughly 200 miles of Outback museums
around North Island yeah and we were in
a 45-foot racing boat about 100 miles by
sea yeah you're on your own we had James
May I know and we won and I haven't seen
you since professionally yeah I haven't
yeah no it was it Still Remains one of
the happiest days of my life because I
said goodbye to James May in the morning
and he was James May you know just James
May and then I don't know how long it
took me eight or nine hours or something
of that nature it took a while and I met
him on the beach the finishing point on
the other side of New Zealand
I have never seen a human being
transform physically as much as he
transformed that day I mean his face was
swollen and tomato red covered in sand
and sick and the man was he was
exhausted exhausted yeah
um and it thrilled me it was arousing to
see that he had very nearly killed James
may he had a terrible time he ate today
he says it's the worst day of his life
ever yeah he did call you he did call
you Captain misery
he saved a little package of peanuts
which was going to be his lunch and it
just I don't know how fast you go 30
knots yeah something like that it's just
getting spray and it's it's a catamaran
so you've just got the netting in
between the two holes and he's sitting
so it's coming up into his balls into
his face and he'd save these nuts which
is going to be his lunch and it was like
I was just I just took them out of the
waved
and then didn't they lose a camera I
think they lost a camera we lost it yeah
and then he couldn't even fill them yeah
so he couldn't even see the misery that
he would we were trying to convince him
because the rest of the crew all sitting
up high out of the out of the Waves you
know James come on get get up out of the
spray no no no I'm getting it I'm good
here so they say eight nine hours just
constantly getting pelting all the sun
Cream came out yeah anyway I've always
loved you ever since that because you
were the man who made James May
miserable for nine hours even I haven't
been able to manage that okay are you a
boat person do you like boats never on a
boat
never I don't like actually I went to
went to um for my six year anniversary
by the heart I went to Stratford and she
bought me a dinner on a boat went on a
barge and down the went down to him back
around and come back he's also never
been in a taxi on a train on a bus on an
airplane no no I don't need to I just
don't need to
why don't you took him in a helicopter
the other day and as we got in he went
do I need a passport we're only going to
look around the farm I can just come
back again
outer I actually at the start I was very
nervous and
um no you want one oh yeah what a
passport or a helicopter I don't need
the passport have you got a passport no
never been abroad I'm guessing I was
told the other day if I got one I think
the first one's free isn't it
it's not the cost of the passport people
consider it's the ability to go places
with one I don't need to
what about if you've got like a book
signing in New York one day I wouldn't
go there
no intent to go to New York
I like it there honestly when I met him
we'll just tell you what three or four
years ago it was more than that never
was it whatever but you'd never been
yeah it was because he was pre-coded
um television has just taken two years
out of everybody's timings it was two
years ago I sent all of covert lockdown
with you pretty much yeah
[Music]
um
so yeah no I'm messing with never been
really outside of tripping Norton at all
no you sent me to London for the second
time yeah the Wasabi which was awful
have you been back since yeah I went to
the ntas and how was that awful National
Television Awards I thought it meant
National Tractor Awards
national team was it's a collection of
orange people Milling around a lot of
orange a lot of orange a lot of orange
people and if you've got it all there on
on your doorstep why do you need to get
anywhere else exactly I mean everything
can chip in Alton you know the for the
shops the you know the people the fam my
family's there I don't need to go
anywhere else my work you know my work
is you know chipping orders there all my
workers around it
I'm very very happy
Jeremy you on the other hand very well
traveled yeah travel all the time wasn't
it on a flight back from Heath I think
I've read this in one of your columns
that you're on a flight back from Africa
maybe and you were coming into Heathrow
and you thought I've got a decision to
make I can either turn left and go to
the Cotswolds or I can go right and go
into London that was just it was coming
back from
I couldn't remember where we were hang
on a minute why didn't you go to London
hahaha
just remembered so Zanzibar and we were
coming back and they've been all that
Rumblings about covered and it was it
was you know is it coming what have you
and he throw oh we got in the car and it
was do we go right to London and the
weather forecast was good so I said
actually no we've got all our hot
weather clothes because we've been in
San Diego we'll go to
tripping on and I've only spent what
three nights in London since then
probably I'd be able to go at all no did
you miss it at all I love London I think
it's a great place but you know and it's
just quite nice to go there and have
Oysters and things that you can't go
here
um
and see people who don't wear those
shoes
um what's wrong with these well it's you
know so you like London you don't wear
brownies you don't have Oysters don't
wear brown in turn why that's the rule
why don't wear brown shoes in London why
I don't know it's just a rule no problem
stupid rule well it's there so anyway
it's quite nice to see people in black
shoes from time to time no I wear black
shoes
I can't wear black shoes no you can't I
have to wear them so so I guess the best
way to sort of work this through is to
think about it in terms of life before
Clarkson's farm and life after
Clarkson's Farm because it seems like
for both of you it's had sort of these
these differing impacts so Jeremy what
was a typical day like before Clarkson's
far oh go to Heathrow
always it always began with get up very
early go to Heathrow go through Terminal
5 which I could do with my eyes shut
on a plane I mean there was times we
were checking in with Richard Hammond
and James May from Grand Tour
and I honestly it would happen quite a
lot they go where are you flying to
today we'd look at each other and go we
haven't got a clue no no it'd be
somewhere ridiculous yeah
look there's a ticket there you can see
where we're going and then we go and go
oh no we go until you chips
we've got Singapore there you go
um so my nose used to write the thing so
I sort of knew what the stories were but
I never knew what order we were filming
them in so I didn't really know where we
were going anywhere and then that was my
day
oh dog Interruption dog Interruption no
that was my day really was
and then or I'd fly back sometimes you'd
fly back have time for five minutes and
then get on a plane again whereas now
get up have a cup of coffee with him
talk about wheat the weather it's about
the weather the weather's a big one
took about
farming problems
talk about the council
and then that's it really and they're
gonna go out well yeah I mean my life
hasn't really changed at all to be
honest oh Caleb that can't be true all
right then okay so I get up in the
morning
normally about six six thirty go and
feed my calves go and go and do my picks
go and check the animals around the you
know whichever Farms I'm looking after
and then go and go right what am I doing
now okay today I'm gonna go cultivating
and then normally have a chat with them
about some stupid idea that he wants to
do yeah and then go so you can't do it
because you've got to go to Bath to do
an after-dinner speech hear me out hear
me out I've got busy huh I have got
busier and then I would then finish
finish the farming and then go and do a
an evening with Caleb
and what does that entail just me on
stage with someone else talking hello
has that has that been though that no
because it's quite different isn't it
it's very I mean but I like it I like
you know I like telling the story what I
like about it
so I did one on on last Friday I did a
uh an event in bath with me and there
was 1100 people turned up and majority
of them were very young kids you know 12
year old 12 to you know 24 you know my
you know my age group and what I like
about it is how I tell my story how I
started with three chickens to where you
know you know having a very successful
contract in business nothing in terms of
the television you know this is all
happening and then seeing the kids face
at the end and going mum can I have some
chickens
that is what I get my adrenaline from
getting them kids out there and just
doing something that they wouldn't
normally do instead of you know get up
go to school come on sit on the sofa do
nothing where instead now they're going
up they're getting up they're going to
school they're going to go and get the
chicken they're going to go and try and
sell their eggs it's a hard thing
actually trying to convince someone to
buy your free-range eggs you know
without a stamp on them it's quite a
hard you know yeah and um that's what I
get my birth from I think you know just
from standing up and telling my story
how I started and knowing them well
leaving there and going them kids in
there are gonna have the motivation to
get out there and get a job but what so
that's and great inspiring youngster so
what inspired you
to get into it am I money
that's a good motivator as any well it's
just I wanted I wanted my own Farm yeah
I mean your Jeremy's obviously mastering
this program yeah you're Jeremy's boss
but who you know who did you know
I like Master an apprentice an
apprentice and master aren't they
they're both doing it through each other
around
I am definitely he is my Young
Apprentice but he knows more about it
than I do so not your Young Apprentice
well you're young I'm young and I pay
you ages you pay some of my wages
so I should be paid looking after you
I paid for looking after me I am
actually let's put it this way what have
you learned from Jeremy
editing
television
and a bit of geography I know where
Africa is now
Jeremy what have you learned from Caleb
oh the list goes on and on and on I
still haven't learned how to attach
anything to the backup I don't think you
ever will truthfully you're not going to
learn that that's a skill you're not
going to pick up okay we're getting it
there I'm doing it forever the problem
is in life if you're me rather than him
is you have to know for example the CCTV
system at the farm there's an app
there's an app for everything there's an
app for the hawkstone delivery thing in
there there's an app probably and you
have to know how all that works you go
into the plant room here which runs all
the water and what have you and you have
to know which is the spring water which
is the bore water you have to know
how to get into Mali where the terrorism
is most likely to strike if you're in
Nigeria or Niger or wherever you have to
know all these things
and then when it comes to how do I
attach that tractor there simply isn't
the space in my head
not the terrorism part of stuff but I
know where the water and the spring
water and the ball water comes in I
don't know they say well I don't know
how to get onto the CCTV but I don't
intend to look on it because I don't
want you get up to a knife but um you
know I know all of that I just don't
know where the terrorism in in no I know
but there's a lot of things that you
have to think about all the time and
then I just haven't got the capacity and
I'm just not practical that's the
problem I mean some people he's one of
them and there are people like this in
the world who can look at an attachment
there and an attachment here and think
oh I can see how that goes together
[Laughter]
famously near the sea
yeah but interesting you are using a lot
of things that are I mean Farmers
obviously the variables of the weather
and always thinking about I know when
the wind's too high is up spraying yeah
but it's not a million miles away from
how you have to apply yourself to
sailing when you're reading the wind and
everything else
the spraying so I look out of the window
now could we go spraying today if the
leaves if I would say yes you can if the
leaves are moving in the tree
you can spray if the branches are moving
you can't spray
our old one so but I'm looking to that
I'm saying leaves really the branches
aren't moving so you'd be okay for
spraying you're fine but so it's an
interesting point though how much do you
guys get into the data of of farming or
is it just gut is it just got you grown
up a bit Farmers
the other day I was thinking I've been
farming for 11 years now
how long have you been from not that
long
I mean I'd only bought the farm in 2008
and I paid no attention to it until when
was it that was the best time
how awesome that was in London well I
wasn't I was in terminal five but it
existed and then I started when did I
start three years ago yeah
what was that conversation like Caleb
when Jeremy came to you and said I've
decided that I'm gonna do this myself
with your help to the guy that I was
working for retired them and I was like
okay you know I've got I've got a
contracting business I'll go and focus
all my time on that and try and grow
that and then he came along you were
like Caleb I'm gonna I'm gonna farm this
myself but you know I was like what
yes I I think I could farm this myself
we haven't got how the old guy that was
farming this and um I was like again I'm
trying to learn I'm trying to understand
that and then he was like can I can I
yeah would you be interested to come
along and help me and we could do this
together
I was right what really I wasn't very
happy do you think you underestimated
the size of the challenge yeah no I did
because I in my head I thought right
we've been farming for 12 000 years as a
species I mean it must be in our DNA now
it just must be yeah you could if the
humankind does something for 12 000
years you have to have an understanding
it's like eating and breathing and
having sex it's just you don't have to
be taught how to do it it's just obvious
and I really thought you'd just go along
put seeds in the ground some weather was
going to happen and then you'll get food
but and how hard can that be well I mean
I've just been staggered at how
difficult it is and how badly paid it is
um and now of course we've got even more
problems I mean there's a genuinely
interesting thing we're doing this year
I think it is anyway is because you've
got all the different ways of growing
food so we've we're growing wheat all
the way down from well it's a couple of
Miles two months or something in all the
different fields all in one great strip
but we're doing it differently in each
one with regenerative farming spraying
normally plunging wheat after we grew
back in last year and all these
different ways to see because I mean the
fact of the matter is the government
subsidies are all going they'll be gone
completely in three years three years so
there'll be no money from the government
at all to help grow food none
and then they said well we're going to
give public money for public good which
is a slogan that doesn't mean anything
and then so we didn't know what it meant
so you don't know what you're supposed
to do what scheme to get into and where
do you just don't know and then they
said oh no actually we do want to grow
food
so the government keeps changing its
mind and it changes its mind as often it
changes its prime minister
um and then you don't really know what
you're doing so I am actually starting
to pay a lot more attention to what
should we be doing because you want to
go I mean if all Farmers said you know
one of those um
anti-loyal people I can't remember which
um group he's from Judean People's Front
people's front to Judea one of those
and they just go just stop farming
in the protest the other day said
farming is the biggest problem with
global warming of anything just stop it
all right let's just say every farmer
stopped farming what would you eat
tonight nothing I mean what would you
you wouldn't be able to eat I made a
vegan there's no common sense why didn't
you stop light eggs go on your beds
but no so there's a lot of things to pay
attention to in the modern world so
while Caleb can go out and attract her
to his heart's content I'm trying to
think
yeah but what are we supposed to be
doing
and then of course you've got the
Council on your back the whole tunnel I
have you have but you made a really good
point about that in series one because
when Charlie came to you and produced
this sort of spreadsheet that ended up
telling you that you've made 144 quid or
something for that year it's like what
are you gonna do if you're a farmer that
doesn't have an Amazon deal that doesn't
have the millionaire program it doesn't
have a column no I know then well they
normally work another job as well
plumbers yeah Farmers all Farmers I
normally work on another job like what
other jobs truck driving you know you
can literally do your animals in the
morning go and jump on a truck drive a
lorry back and forth get back at five
six whatever and then do your animals
again then go to bed let's bring another
wage
it's honestly it's very difficult every
farmer I mean every farmer out there has
got three or four jobs probably
but like you say when these subsidies
stop then what's gonna happen because
what sort of percentage of Revenue are
those well they were two years ago you
got from there's a thousand acres here
so you've got a basic payment of just
for having the land of 80
something thousand a year I know that
sounds I've got 80 000 what you're
moaning about you know take your
expenses out you know you've by the time
you if you buy a tracks yeah a tractor's
100 000 pounds any bit of just a bit of
that cow crash we bought which is just a
literally a metal fence ten thousand
pounds so it sounds like a huge amount
but actually the farm will just eat it
and
seconds yeah with every time you have to
buy anything
it's you're 80 000 pounds is gone and
then it dropped twenty percent the first
year and it's dropped 20 again this year
and it'll go in five years to nothing so
far because the idea was that
governments around Europe around the
world actually paid Farmers to grow food
to feed people because they knew
if you went to the supermarket and had
to pay what food it cost to grow people
would would Riot okay I'm not spending
six quid on half a dozen eggs
or milk that's how much it cost to make
so all food was subsidized by government
via the farmers
and now somebody's decided that's not
going to happen anymore in the UK so
I mean I said well buy our food from
abroad but they did that in 1939 and
then the U-boats came well they
basically turned around and said look
grow you know grow wild flowers and
stuff like this well she's brilliant you
know lovely love to look at fine but you
take 100 acres of wheat out and put it
into flowers that's a you know 100 acres
it's going to supply what 300 tons of
wheat that's a lot of bread
that's a lot of food so what's the
answer for Farm like what's the future
of farming in Europe um close down
different
literally close it don't send them all
home I mean you wouldn't you wouldn't
believe how many hours of the day you
haven't seen the
cows
oh I've got cows no I know but you know
what it's like yeah yeah so when a cow
is born you've got to tag it which means
basically you give it earrings
and then you've got to marry those
numbers in its ears up to its mother's
number and then which takes a long time
yeah and it's really difficult to do
and then you've got to phone it all
through to defra
who actually start the thing by saying
we're all working from home and you're
like
and then well I finally got to the end
of it you haven't seen this and I you
have to give your cph number of CFA CPA
so read it out and the Machine can't
recognize it you read it over and oh the
day's going by now and it goes I'm sorry
but your phone number doesn't match up
to the number I'm like well
start again yeah yeah the amount and
you've got three days to do that as well
normally you're carving cows so
therefore you're doing the buckets
you're making sure the mum's okay you're
betting down you know so it's a day and
you've got to spend a day with someone
who can't be asked to go to work
on the phone talking to a recorded
message and it's not I mean that happens
on so many levels there are so many
things oh you can't do that because and
there's it's just extraordinary I mean
coming up the drive every day if I see
somebody coming in a pickup truck it's
somebody coming to do a job of work
they're coming to men defense or fix the
garage the tractor one Dora it's him or
Kieran his brother or whatever it is if
it's a Vauxhall a rented voxel you know
it's someone from the government who's
come to tell you to stop doing what
you're doing and it goes on and on and
on and on and the first thing that would
help farmers is if defra let farmers get
on with it because how many bad apples
are the farmers a few you get the odd
one or two you're going to buy the odd
one the farmer's not out there to harm
animals you know destroy the you know
what gets me about farmers we've got a
lake down the bottom haven't we you know
yeah yeah so who what upon the lake
whatever yeah but who pays for that to
be maintained for the animals and the
you know the environment you Farmers
yeah no one else is doing that so if
farmers are that bad why are they paying
out their own money to go and you know
build a lake or dig you know in the
woods so now you you've got this amazing
voice is that do you feel the
responsibility to work with nfu and take
on defra and someone to get you know
some of these things Role Models they're
so busy fighting them or not fighting
you're so busy dealing with them
on time to go and say you know what what
are you doing with them they're not even
working there no go go on your bed on
your bed or sit one of the two come sit
no you sound even got time to train the
dogs not even the dog wants to listen
not even the dog but it is I mean
farming is going to be a problem but
that's why I mean that wasn't to blow
smoke up his bottom
it is nice that you get Caleb why are
you 24 now 24 yeah yeah it's coming
along and it's going to fight and I
actually think he probably will be able
to work out how to make it pay
but sitting where I'm sitting I cut
there's no not a cat in Hell's chance I
mean that do you know how much that cow
Enterprise cost to set up oh building
the barn buying the cows buying the
crash
180 240 000. wow
that's a long time to
pay that back so if you want to build a
barn buy how many cars we buy 19 cows
breed them vets bills food bedding
you know giving them a house buying the
equipment you need fencing 200 it's
quarter of a million pounds that's when
that's when a family doesn't take a wage
though yeah you know that's he cannot
take a wage on that and then when I'm
working
but I'm feeding my calves in the morning
so I bought eight calves I'm buying it's
like a little bit of a new business idea
that I'm doing buying carves in and then
you know you feed them on milk which
cost me about 200 pound a calf and then
selling them at nine months for trying
to get a profit trying to see if it will
work you know anyway but I looked I
worked out the other day do you know how
much my hourly rate is I get paid I pay
myself for doing them cuffs what is it
50p an hour oh
that's us and then I can make money but
if I put myself at 10 pound now I don't
make money I lose money on the calves
you've got a really entrepreneurial
Street haven't you though yeah I'm
really yeah it's weird actually when I
was in school I could sit you know I
didn't like school but I go and sit in
maths and they were going right what's
10 times 10 I'd like this
but get me out there and go right okay
you've got eight cows eight cows
you're right you know you do absolutely
right eight cows plus you know whatever
how many is it straight away Bang Yeah
or work out if you've got Caleb you've
got 30 eggs to sell yeah this week yeah
how much money you're gonna get well you
know you work out 25p you know put them
into sixes how many sixes you know I
could just do that I could do the maths
and do the and do the money but when it
comes to sitting in a classroom and
adding up and because you're practical
and you're interested in it well I'm
interested in making money I want to
make as much money as I can you don't
like sheep and I want to know why you
don't like sheep and what your problem
is with sheep what's your problem with
sheep I mean basically a sheep
a sheep's mind is is got two things it's
got two things on his mind all the time
wow two one killing itself yeah that is
one of the two yeah what's the other one
but in a way we'll get it now so it can
kill itself right yeah I mean basically
it wants to get you know you put it in
the best field ever lovely grass and it
goes right
this is lovely I'm gonna go and kill
myself now where's a fence there it is
no somebody told me or sent me a video
the other day of
um
a sheep that's a deliberately puts its
head in some stock fencing it got stuck
there and then a badger came and was
eating it as it was stuck from the back
what is she thinking and the sheet
because but no it's face not a lot at
that point I am being eaten but it had a
completely resigned look on its face do
you want to see that in Nature
Documentaries when there's a deer being
eaten by a lion it's always going to be
neat
but the Sheep things like that it was
just it was and it goes yes I've done it
yeah brilliant it's not just dying a
sheep wants to die in the most gruesome
and revolting way possible yeah he wants
maggots to come really and loves that
but as much as you don't like them there
is some real poignancy with you and
those sheep I mean you've got I know I
know in the end they ended up on the
dinner table yeah there was but in the
on the journey that got them there there
was some weird way
they were the Rams Wayne and Leo yeah
well we've still got
um Leo Wayne obviously died but because
we just went I need to die today well
twist my intestine around lovely and
then it was dead
um but even in death they were annoying
I had to load it up I had them remember
yeah yeah of those three that went off
God I got hot it was really bad I would
never go so I thought even in death
they're being annoying
properly I know everyone Wayne died and
we rang the vet to see right we've got
to find out what's actually killed Wayne
now so yeah I think it was you around
the vet and he was like look bring a bag
we've got a you know this dead sheep
we've got a bagger can you do a an
autopsy and find out what's wrong with
it the vet turned up with this tiny
little bag and he's like well I thought
you meant it was a lamb and I was like
no mate it's a ram and he bought this
Tony bag and he's trying to put it in he
could fit the head in it and I was like
look try to go and get you know I was
half a day I spent trying to get that
that sheep up into the back of it it was
super really difficult but they're
surprisingly difficult the escaping is
quite as because that's the other one
you do give them a really good field and
all they do is want to get out and go
and graze on the road so they can be run
over and burst that's why they do
they're just unbelievably I take if I
don't know how I do my my talk it's
going back to the talk I go right before
I start going about sheep I've used
sheep farmers in the audience can you
put your hand up and then let me get you
there and I get up and bow to them I'm
like you need that that is what you need
your day-to-day job is that hard
you've come to have an evening here
sitting down for an hour and you're
going to go back and all your sheep are
going to be out fact I feel like you
don't need to but do you ever give Caleb
any advice onto how to handle those sort
of public speaking or uh The Fame game
or any of that do you ever Point them in
the right direction on that stuff he's
very because he's a even though he's
doesn't know anything
I do quite he's got quite an inquiring
mind so yeah
you know when you first start and it's
it's something like commercial activity
it's very tempting when you what were
you 22 23 and people come along and say
you don't have this money for doing this
and I would say you need to be very
careful for every hundred pounds you
earn
um commercially you'll lose in the long
term a hundred thousand pounds because
your career will I mean I'm still here
almost 62 so I've been 40 years I
suppose doing it now
and I'm still here because I never took
you know you pay for your watch you pay
for your car you pay for your shoes you
pay for everything and no one can ever
accuse you of taking the corporate
Shilling and then I'll explain this and
he was a bit sort of what I said
honestly it will pay off in the end once
you've got credibility if you start
messing around with people's heads and
going
buy this amazing new seed you you
there's a yeah so It's Tricky so he's
buddy is very interested aren't you in
that kind of thing yeah because it's
it's so easy to be swayed you get an
agent the agent's on the phone they're
coming over this and you're thinking
that's fine I get paid 50 Quid and go
and then you just think oh God do I want
to be opening super new and you don't
you want some I want to be farming I
spend 85 of my time out there you said
that's the goal right to have your own
Farm yeah that's my that is my dream
you know at the start when I become when
Clarkson's Farm come out for the first
time and I said look Jim I need some
advice you know people have offered me a
lot of money this could potentially buy
a family he was like look give me the
advice you know you give you give me a
good advice you know and I'm very
grateful that wait and um I was like
yeah I could buy my farm and then he was
like wait wait wait so I turned
everything down and I'd still turn a lot
that's very brave isn't it it's great to
do that but you know this because you're
from the television world how many
presenters have you seen take the
corporate Shilling and last 18 months
and then they're gone I mean think of
all those names that were pretty much
household names in I don't know the 80s
or the 90s or the 90s and then they'd
just go I remember look at reality TVs
yeah that's right they come along they
open a load of supermarkets and they're
gone if that well reality General well
although that's you
this is actually a reality show yeah but
you know this you've got to just be
careful and go I've got a skill set and
my skill set is farming and that's what
I'm going to do yeah I can write books
about it I can appear on television
doing it and if everything's real and
honest and sensible you'll go on and on
and on and on and on and the longevity
is what pays ultimately not
a short burst of success have either of
you seen below deck
no I am aware of it and all I think is
right if they've got the cameras into a
boat
it's not real okay so um microphones and
you're on a boat that means you're gonna
no one can fall in the sea without
somebody's saying oh stock can I just
put an aqua pack on your microphone but
on below deck so you've got this very
exactly they've got this very glamorous
crew right it's a very glamorous crew
and you're sort of watching the you know
the way in which they live their lives
and it plays out with various revolting
guests that turn up on board the boats
and you know it's all super yacht mega
yacht world but my point being is that
you kind of see The Superficial you see
the surface of that you don't see what's
going on completely behind the scenes
because you never get to meet an
engineer on that program yeah I don't
believe a word of it anyway so somebody
comes on board that boat they've
chartered the boat they've come on board
the boat there are cameras everywhere
and what they're going to behave
you're not going to be yourself are you
you know the cameras are on you're not
but with the farm is it what we see is
it just is it this gang of people how
many more people are there behind the
scenes making this thing happen because
no one else I mean truth be told you
wouldn't need it there's him I mean you
could do this file yeah yeah easily on
his own and I'm just trying to learn
because I want to know what they say in
terms of the farm in the farming world
there's 600 acres is one man's work so
that is everything from cultivation
drilling spraying combining I mean in
the summer months you you know you get
someone else in just to sit on another
tractor for you and help you out but 600
acres is one man and what do we Farm
here 540 yeah so right a bit more than
that it's 560 isn't it
whatever it's actually anyway um and
then the other half the farm is grass so
technically there's management there as
well so you know in terms I could
probably do the whole thing on my own
but then you've gone into your well I
want to learn which is what the program
was about and then you do we both need
Charlie actually yeah Charlie I mean
Charlie's knowledge of there's on a
Thousand Acre there's a lot of paperwork
as well and I I even I don't even
understand the paperwork I can do the
passports or the crops and everything
like that in the cows but
when it comes to a certain thing I mean
you need you need someone like Charlie
and every fan would have that also how
lonely would it be if it was just one
person that's what we say all the time
you know how many farmers are literally
on their own I mean absolutely on their
own right now and they're on a track to
going up and down and all they're
thinking is I'm gonna have
zero money
you know and they've got to put they've
got a family and they've got a family at
home and they have no money it's about
the suicide rate now among Farmers is
just it's my it's no there's a greater
number of accidents than all other jobs
put together on farms and the suicide
rate now is they were taking vets I
believe it's and it's because it's
because it's lonely and they aren't
being paid
you must leave you were nobody would go
to work if they knew they weren't going
to get any money and they were going to
be on their own all day long so that's a
good thing about a farmer though isn't
it I mean I wake up in the morning it's
not work I mean because we do have
there's quite a here there's quite a bit
Yeah there's I mean you get you know the
cameraman you know the it's just the
crew is amazing I mean I get them of all
of them and I've ever since the first
time I turned up you know I turned up
for the first time very like oh God
what's it going to be like because I've
never experienced television and you've
done it for 40 years no turned up going
oh God and all of a sudden you go right
in my pit you're like
like cameraman's coming up to you you
know like and then you that's it you're
part of the team you're part of the fan
was like I mean last night was a lot it
was a really surprisingly warm evening
for this time of year and the sun was
going down it was autumn colors and so
the main camera man Casper was out and
about
he's always out and about getting
filming insects and birds and trees and
he was out topping and I was walking the
dogs and we just messed up and you stand
around chatting and that's
we're very lucky that we've got that
because if you're just one farmer if you
didn't have that support network really
of course that's the modern vernacular
but yeah but it isn't I wouldn't think
of it as a support network
normally in a field like that the fan
would be there on his own all day long
well actually I was in that field
but this could be Jeremy come alive this
could be you in 30 years time hopefully
sooner than 30 years I'll be what I'd be
then
you know myself I'll be too stubborn to
help someone absolutely you still got
that passion for it right oh God yeah I
mean you know I mean my end goal here is
to buy a farm buy my own Farm you know
and then
that is where the dream is which the day
I wake up on my own Farm walk up the
front door and go that field there I'm
gonna plant wheat not because anyone
tells me to
just simply I want to
and then I can go right in that band
there this year we're gonna go and get
some picks or get some you know I'm
going to try and make money out of that
or go you know that is when the dream is
complete
and you haven't got this this guy
getting away but he can be around but
he's not allowed on my phone
no because I mean you are doing very
well because there's an awful lot of
people moving at to this neck of the
woods from London yeah I mean it would
have to be very proud of him because
actually that's like you say all the
trappings and the the you know all of
that is there on the table laid out of
Fame and what that brings and everything
else actually to step back from that and
say no and be prepared to do this down
sensible because I know he's got the
long term he wants to buy a farm and
actually I want him to buy a farm almost
more than he wants to buy a farm
um not get someone less argumentative to
run this one no you still have me here
because oh still I've seen you to work
full-time as well as have my own Farm
you know you have to pay for your own
Farm by working on somebody else's but
that's what I'll say there's a lot of
people moving out from London and
they've all got 50 acres or 100 acres
and they don't really want to farm it
but they do need it looking after and
that's you know there's a bit of
business around it builds a business
around a lot of londoners moving out
here you're sort of lucky to have each
other though aren't you yeah yeah oh God
no definitely because I couldn't have
done I mean I like farming but I like
the television side of stuff as well and
he teaches me
so I mean the television's a different
you know from a very young age I was
like right you go on a path you're
walking down the path you hit an
obstacle you go through the obstacle and
get to your next dream or goal yeah well
I've done that and I've put you know the
obstacles won't buy my own Farm job
school is television come along and I'm
like oh I'm gonna instead of running
away from it I'll go in you know oh
Christ I'm gonna go through that and I'm
very lucky to have you don't drop our
tear here because I'm being nice but
what do all your mates think of it what
does everyone think of it who knows you
what's your brother think about it it
doesn't really phase him to be honest my
brother I mean Brothers just
he's younger than me and I've taught him
everything so he started exactly the
same he just didn't do the whole
business decide because I set a business
up very young he couldn't work for the
business and help me run the business I
say work for the business it's a really
bad word because actually he you know
he's equally as
he's exactly like me really but just a
little bit quieter yeah you know he's
yeah but you know in term in terms of
farming I taught him everything he
everything he knows now I talked him he
didn't go to college didn't really go to
school he come out of school and go and
look okay I can have a job all right so
I haven't got one at the minute but I
can try and find you a job I hope you
find one so I found him a job he started
on a dairy farm and then I said look
I've got a job now would you want to
come and work for me yeah okay so you're
coming along joined you know my
contracting business and then from the
very start he's been there so therefore
he's part of the furniture now you know
he's
you know everything he knows about
driving a tractor spraying drilling I
taught him so you know that's why this
I'm going to take an apprentice on as
soon as I have my own Farm it's going to
be full of young people I'll make money
somewhere yeah saving money on labors
you can make money on books now booked
good I mean the world according to Caleb
and it's gone so wow I mean um you know
did you see the other yeah are you out
selling Sunday Sunday you're out selling
Jeremy remembering no I wouldn't want
one or two I don't want to because then
you know it might upset him it might
upset him I don't want that so yeah
available he wouldn't fire me he
couldn't fire me actually I wouldn't I
want genuinely I would like Caleb to buy
a farm and if that means selling a lot
more books the best one in the world is
love just to govern number one
bestseller always nice you know that one
it went to number one now it's number
two fine he's nicking a load of sales
off me but but
I actually don't need any money from
books and he does so it's in some ways
it's good that he is getting it yeah
what's the top was the top tip from the
world according to Caleb it's not really
top tips I mean there's it's my view on
different things so the thing I like
about it yeah so how I how the book you
know I was in the chapter going up and
down I went you know what
I wouldn't you know I famously known for
not reading books you know I don't I
don't read you know I haven't got time
actually to read and um I went why not
just write one instead how hard can it
be so I got myself a little recorder so
I was in the chapter going up and down
and going right my view on London you
know when second I went to London I know
so for example the idea come so I went
to London for the second time after him
sending me to sell wasabi
and I was in Mayfair and I remember you
know I've got a big fear of big
buildings actually and I think he caused
that sent me to a place unknown and you
know it's called The Shard yeah it's
scary anyway you know what this was in
this was in Mayfair the idea so I looked
up and I remember seeing a tree on top
of a building
and the first the first four that come
to my head you know around here I can go
and battery out there you know 20 foot
high it's going to cut you know it's
going to take half a day to climb it cut
the limbs off to make the tree healthier
you know it's half a day's work I'm on
15 feet in the air now I was there and
the first thing I thought well I've got
to get an elevator go a thousand feet in
the air and then get the gear on climb
the 15-foot tree therefore I'll be at
1015 feet in the air just to prune a
tree that I I still cannot get that is
London it's crazy I mean how you get a
tree to grow on top of a building is
insane but you know trying to prune it I
want to say this thousand foot building
in Mayfair well
it looked a thousand foot when I was in
the bottom
so what can we look forward to in season
two what what are the key sort of
takeaways from from well two weeks two
we've changed we didn't we still got the
sheet but um we've got some cows
which are much nicer aren't they I love
cows
um we had an argument with cows didn't
we we're not fans
we got a little bit of land with some
not our cows but we got we got caught up
we got a miniature dachshund Ginger and
it was causing them you know little dogs
took on the cows we had one of the
Bellatrix on my back your back yeah and
running through this field and they came
at us from three different angles
you're blaming the cows
so go on well we were we were painted we
were we were kind of I mean threatening
it was really scary it came at us from
three different things somebody said the
other day he's done more chance I think
it was a covert a politician said you
stand more chance of being killed by a
cow than you do of dying of covert so I
looked into it unbelievably large amount
of people are killed by cows but they're
usually Ramblers so it doesn't matter
but but that's what the problem we were
rambling
oh that was your field so it's yeah but
if you're walking if you walk through a
field of
cows you've got to accept that they are
very they're very strong they don't want
to hurt you they just want to they look
like they wanted to do it how did they
tear down a cow you just gently walk
away oh no wait a minute attack cow
Genghis oh yeah but I mean she was a
different breed that was an assurable
she was horrible is she still around no
no
Genghis had to go Genghis was properly
annoying because you're not called a cat
Cow now she's called Genghis well she
was attacked Cowell Genghis or sometimes
Chris bonnington when she did that man I
mean look at that look at the design
done look at him there you go yeah Frio
well then you're not allowed to put
those up
you can't even put danger Bull and feel
because if the bull then attacks
somebody
what you're doing is by you if you've
written danger you're accepting you knew
it was dangerous to put a bull in the
field and therefore you're liable so all
you can write is bull in field and then
let people make their own minds right
make their own mindset so all of that
Bull in film no red trousers but Bull in
field enjoy enjoy that's okay
because we had one the other day that
woman who put a Croc into a you left a
gate post out when you've got Double
Gates so that you can even both of them
get attracted through and kit took it
out and we were in and out all day long
and she was trespassing on the farm
somehow put her foot into this hole and
then bruised her leg I'm suing you and
there's nothing you do so but we were in
and out I know you should have put the
thing back in
so yeah it's um it's a constant
frustration that sort of thing isn't it
but anyway we've got cows for um for
season two I wanted to ask a question
about talking about tractors and and
Automobiles
going back to the petrol heads if you
I'm gonna take tractors out of this to
any car the rest of your life does not
refer to Caleb you've got no no no I
think it is what what would what would
it be for the rest of your life you had
to pick a car
what would be uh I actually chose for my
60th birthday because I couldn't have a
party I bought myself a Bentley for my
60th birthday present to myself
and my grandfather did this well he
always had Bentleys and so I thought
and he always used to say this he'll see
me out this one and he lived quite a
long time so he kept having to buy
another one but in my mind that'll see
me out apparently what is it which
Bentley is it it's a Spur Flying Spur
which is I mean and the most annoying
things I was really pleased that and it
came and it's a it's a lovely car and I
like Bentley's and then I opened the
newspaper the next day and Prince
Andrew's got one
and then
turn on reach you know then you reach a
program so Amazon's putting out he's got
one so oh great yeah that evens it out
yeah it's fine that evens it out I don't
know what I'm okay for listen listen
you know basically my cars I like are
the ones that in the 2000s you know the
Evo it's Subarus uh probably I mean I've
got a Nissan I can impress that kind of
yeah yeah but I want you know I wouldn't
want to race him around I want to buy
them put them in a barn
and then when I'm old enough I can go
right here goes where did you get wet if
you're not going to go beyond chippy
Norton what are you going to do with
them what's perfect place for them
actually the evos
I mean it's just fun you can have around
we've just filmed um well not which is
showing the scandi flick well we had an
EVO 8 and a Subaru Impreza and I had an
Audi and he said oh God please can you
bring them back in one piece well
obviously James May smash the Evo out of
him yeah you put a comment up and I said
oh please can you bring the Eva in the
Subaru I'll buy them Richard Hammonds
bought the Subaru and then James and
James has ruined the and he's out on my
Audi what I mean what do they think of
this Farm project
um James Bones have watched it well he
will but he won't admit to it he says
that farming is just big gardening I
really annoys me I always mean but I'm
not interested in anything he does he's
interested in light aircraft and
motorcycling
um I think Hammond was very funny
because having Muhammad is very funny
but he said um because it was very
successful the farm so when it went out
which nobody was expecting I wasn't
nobody was nobody was expecting it to be
successful and Richard Hammond said it
was a nightmare walking around with
everyone going oh God have you seen
Clarkson's Farm it's really good and yes
I am really pleased for it completely
I'm so happy for him
did you really not think it was gonna be
a hit you no yeah but you know how to
make television shows you know what
connects with people no no no it didn't
think this I thought it would serve a
gentle disappointment to an army of
petrol heads you know I've done really
class shows mostly all of my life and I
just thought this is so completely
different you're going to get a petrol
head audience you're going to tune in
thinking oh it's Jeremy class and it'll
be tractor racing and everything will
blow up
and then he'll say something
inappropriate and then I took they'll
get a halfway speed program one and go
but I think what's this all about you
know he's just going up and down in the
tractor at 11 miles an hour even that 11
kilometers an hour
but and and of course it just went and
when you open the history is it the
chemistry of people on screen what is
this what would you put the success down
to
I mean obviously he was a what they call
a breakout star which is quite a good
Gerald I mean the Caster is great yeah
it can't be the chemistry because nobody
has chemistry in the first
you just that's not that's one of the
funniest things I watched television
companies trying to do that
and they got a new group of people and
they put them together and go have
chemistry
you can't it chemistry comes with time
that's why I'm On Top Gear because we
had
uh the three of us nobody really watched
us when we first started so we could
develop chemistry over time when no one
was watching then Richard Hammond went
upside down first time
you know upside down a lot the first
time when he knocked his head off nearly
then everyone started tuning in by which
time we'd already become a fully formed
Trio it's like the Beatles at the cavern
Club
well that they've been in Hamburg you
mean and Hamburg exactly exactly 20 000
hours into Japan and practice their art
away from Britain yeah exactly that so
we've done that and then Hammond went
upside down which I thought was taking
one for the team on a really big
and he made it very very popular as a
result
it's the same way I know it's really the
chemistry I think it's there that it'll
come that comes with time I think
honestly I think a lot we were the first
to come up with a program that featured
covert which because we kept filming
through it I think people didn't didn't
know they were interested in farming
I think a lot of people suddenly thought
and particularly just after covert when
a lot of people have moved to the
countryside
and then suddenly there was a program on
kind of how the countryside worked and
they thought
I was surrendered but those lines were
in fields London you know and then the
Sheep were obviously awful to own great
television
it's like that when the cows have been
the other way around actually haven't
they easy to own quite boring television
or something I don't know I think
they've been
I know they escaped on day one actually
they did Escape yeah
I got an ice cream when they escaped
last time you did that was a great one
somebody came knocked on the door said
your cows are on the road do you call me
up well this I called him couldn't get
through
and it was dark dark
so I went down and they were indeed in
the middle of the road and all I had
with me was Lisa's youngest daughter
you wouldn't she's not a natural
cowherding person she belongs in London
she's very much you know London so we
managed to kind of put the car in the
middle of the road this Hazard warning
lights on like if somebody's kind of got
to say slow down because you won't see
those cameras
and then you look and think
I can't I couldn't find the hole in the
Hedge through which they'd escaped so I
think I'm gonna have to walk them down
the road all the way up the drive it's
called miles back into that gate up
there get them back in that field then
I'm going to have to go down to find how
they've got out and then repair that and
it couldn't
and cars were coming and the road was
stopping one of the cars was an ice
cream van
so what I was just
a nice cream was yeah that'd be nice so
we stood then you turned up and he got
an ice cream and then I went right go
that way
oh over to bed left I finished at like
two o'clock in the morning yeah
well he slept what's Jeremy done for
farming
someone wrote that he had done something
like what was it for I don't know 30
years of country file have basically
been told in he's done more for farming
than 30 years of country file in a year
he put his help put Farmer on a map yeah
but because I don't think anybody
realized just how difficult it was I
don't think anybody realized he got 144
quid 50 people you didn't make the map
but he helped it he helped it
helped show it to the world yeah I mean
that's yeah
that's worth having well it was because
I mean country file it's much better now
than it was I I like to think actually
we've altered countryfile because there
was one item they were showing a few
years ago well they've got this hippie
woman you know pairing arm but it's all
nine yards and um she'd taken the
presenter into a wood which presumably
was trespassing I imagine and then she
said right now lay under a tree and hum
can you feel the energy
and this present was going yeah no I can
I think you can't because can't feel the
energy you're stupid there is no energy
and then and they lay there humming and
I thought this is prime time television
and it's supposed to be like Countryside
what are you doing anyway they sort of
stopped doing that and Adam Henson's got
a lot more because he's great I think
Adam isn't he yeah yeah that's good so
you know we think he's oh
and also this farming life on BBC Two
that's also really good that's really
good I mean there's some bad farming
programs out there there's some bad
farming programs out yeah no there's
been one of two but this family Life's
good it's good it's getting some
traction now on television and I like to
think we were looking I think I think
it's one of the most important things
out there
I mean without Farmers you're not going
to eat I don't think people realize that
until they watch your program but I want
to know where I don't think they realize
where farming fitted into their own
world yeah I think a lot of people think
farming is either and I like Kate humble
that she's not a criticism of Kate in
any way but you know those scenes of her
with a little baby lamb and fresh straw
you know it's not always like which is
no no it's not so people thought that's
some people that's farming and then the
only other sort of farming you ever saw
was on the news when they'd smuggle
cameras into an American yeah be fun and
they're all cows are all like that so
the pigs or whatever and they didn't
realize that actually most farming in
the world and certainly 99 of it here
is sort of in between Kate humble and
American factory farming but from your
background being so different it's
almost an Integrity to coming in
and you when you talk about the top soil
issues with the topsoil and I know turn
the other day about
birds and you know the environment in
general people are going well this is a
guy come there's a petrol head really
now he's talking about the issues in the
environment and in some ways that's got
more Integrity than all myself
I mean I've always liked Birds yeah
annoys me what is it annoying I just all
you talked about this bird
I'm like yeah yeah
how do I monetize that Finch you can't
not unless you're French so you can't
monetize it how can I make money off
that yeah I saw a great um just a shrike
the other day
great great shine to help the end
um well I'm so excited nobody else could
see bothered about it
don't get me wrong but there's a point
where like I'm in work mode and trying
to earn money mode and then he's coming
along
the ground
pigeons on the other hand pigeons are
immune to bird flu how they just are the
rat of the sky the other Rats of the sky
pigeons are immune to bird flu
who knew is that actually real yeah
that's true I've been I was researching
bird flu last week because I'm it's
terrifying well it's quite I mean it's
not just a poultry for you I mean you
won't be having a turkey this Christmas
well turkey's are the main carrier
actually so if you want you will not be
having turkey all Goose actually
realistically no
so how big a problem do you think it'll
be bird flu yeah that will be it is
absolutely massive there's in America
now there's one that well like in
Florida 99 of all the birds are dead
and if you go to the beaches of Britain
they are carpeted with dead sea birds
especially the Year we're in Autumn now
yeah this time of year Now farmers
normally get out there cultivate their
land plow you know which brings all the
seagulls they were here they're eating
them you know and then of course they're
normally a carrier of this bird flu so
therefore they're bringing it from the
coastal side Inland and then it's just
spreading like it was like leave it
isn't it for Birds I understand I shoot
you know present going through too and
I'm struggling morally to do it this
year because you think if I shoot a
pheasant and I don't pick it and then a
a kite for example something it's
carrying comes along and eats that
Pheasant you you you're not helping put
it like that and it's it's it's wiping
there are some birds all the shooting
dates I've got this year yeah
I'm not shooting we're not shooting here
yeah I just thought well it's very
difficult to get because of brexit you
can't get the birds and B I just think I
don't want to contribute to the because
we're wiping out
I don't think you'll see a gannet after
this ever again or a skewer ever again
or no ever again I mean there's so many
birds you won't see ever again they've
just been killed all of them are being
killed it's good so it's terrified yeah
terrifying why isn't it a bigger story
in the news
because there's quite a few other
stories that are even bigger
you know when you've got War runaway
inflation the sixth biggest economy
being battered around by incompetence
you know
you've just got big stories big stories
everywhere somebody comes along and says
you see how many dead seagulls there are
everyone goes you know it's not very
interesting
let's hope it's not a watch this space
thing well if it mutates it will be I
mean the majority of farmers haven't
been told to shut their chickens up but
they are we have yeah every family I
know this one but okay we've seen this
come in and there would before the
government go right everyone's shut your
chickens up it's a law now you know if
you you see your chickens out we're
going to get fined well actually Farmers
have already done that now before
they've even been told I've been locked
up for two months don't we yeah we
should have locked ours up during covert
don't go on to the church
I got very attached it wasn't the bird
flu that got them no Faults yeah not
awesome you should have went around
peeing around the outside oh right yeah
well I sort of did try that but did you
yeah it didn't work here either yeah
it's sad actually because you get quite
attached to chicken yeah
I mean in my book chicken's got a
massive part of my book They're Wicked I
mean I started my business with chicken
so I have a great love for chickens but
it gets to the point where you know I
mean they're brutal you thought I was so
stupid
no no we haven't no we've got one oh no
no one survived Maureen was okay
no we had to transport Maureen to a
friend's house also on the Isle of Wight
um
with the whole premise that the others
had gone on an earlier vehicle so that
when our daughter woke up she was like
why have they all disappeared we were
like no this one stayed to say goodbye
to you before before we went off to New
Zealand like this whole big storyline
running around the fun guy and trying to
pick up all these feathers and this is
decimated that's the same thing I can't
remember where those rabbits or guinea
pigs but broadly the same when my
children were very little
and we came back from being away
somewhere oh God couldn't see the I
think we're guinea pig I want to see the
guinea pigs off they won't see fluffy
and snowy and where I was a little Club
daddy daddy they've gone into a cage
completely empty and I thought well I
know what's happened but I won't say
that so I said um
what's happened is they've just decided
they loved you very much but they've met
a load of friends and they've gone down
to live in a stream with voles and all
the you know the local animals and
having a great time they're all they're
happy oh yeah they will be happy they
miss you but yeah and and the next
morning I was walking around I found
half of one of them and then thought
oh God so I had to get everyone over we
combed the garden with the because
if they find um half a guinea pig my
story is going to be I haven't got to
that point yet but if Oscar I mean he
comes out and points at the piggies and
I'm like yeah they will one day be in
our freezer yeah
yeah
guinea pigs well you can actually they
eat I mean
we ended up with a conversation which
was and there are chickens for eating
and then there are other chickens
so you've got your chickens here the uh
the chickens that you have in your
garden
they make our eggs and you go and
collect them every morning and clean out
and everything else and then the other
chickens are the ones that seem to work
yeah but she's savvier than that isn't
she because she's currently vegetarian
this was yeah oh God this is a couple
years ago six oh she arrived at that
decision I think it's School
and then she changes her mind and she's
like she's like yeah yeah terrifying
mind you you're just vegetableism in
your family yeah yeah and then my other
half's um family are all vegans
really
well I mean the reason every Sunday
lunch table I'll just go and take a
steak like I'm not eating cardboard
it was
like chewing paper honestly
um but no they I mean they would they've
actually become vegans because their dad
so my my other half's mum's dad
used to be a farmer and you know there
was a beef farmer and um but he was very
much of a bit of roadkill on the side
we're having that for dinner later you
know and I think they grew up seeing
that and I was like we don't want we
don't want and then now it's become this
I mean they were before it's become this
popular thing to become vegan you know
they were that before then you know
because of the reason they didn't want
to eat that thing that's been hit by a
car and
they shot this morning in the morning
we're gonna have that for dinner
um but I mean I mean they understand
that I'm I'm a farmer and that's what I
do I mean they come up and go
um what are you doing with the pizza but
I'm like well you know um yeah
and then they just look at me funny and
walk off you know and then we don't talk
about it then so guys based on the fact
that this is called performance people
this podcast and you two are very much
performance people in your own ways
um top tip for people every day a
performance tip that they could say to
how they could be better say to yourself
in your head continuously dreams don't
work unless you do that's what I do
sounds like an Instagram inspirational
quote I always say it let's say make
people laugh
laugh have a good life along the way but
dreams don't work unless you do I mean
people can soon lose motivation but I've
never had ambition because ambition is
the most stupid thing
I'll tell you why how do you mean I've
always ambition you will either if you
have an ambition a goal right I'm
ambition you either achieve that goal in
which case so what but then what you're
going to do set another goal or you
don't in which case your life is full of
disappointment so it's either going to
be empty or disappointing I've never had
a single ambition in my life ever and
I've got one now what about different
people yeah what what about to be a
farmer it wasn't an ambition I was
contractually obliged
by by contract obviously to make a solo
television program and I know Amazon
wanted me to go jet skiing out of
helicopters on mountains and um I just
thought no I don't want to go through
Terminal 5 and I'd met him and I'd met
Gerald and I thought I reckon there's a
TV show in farming I don't have to go
anywhere that wasn't an ambition it was
and I'd already decided I wanted to get
more involved in the farmer just so well
let's do a show about that
if you haven't got the ambition where
some motivation come from it's just that
you know that's the journey
well clearly but no I've got no but not
10 jobs now because I've got the brewery
Who Wants To Be A Millionaire Grand Tour
three newspaper columns a week the farm
the farm show
and you're too
I said he wants to be a millionaire
probably not anyway I got 10 sort of
What would most people would call
full-time jobs
which I enjoy but if you take the far if
you take the farm what's the
where do you go with the farm if you you
know got
some you must have some goals some
targets I would quite like to make it
profitable by the time the government
subsidies have like disappeared but it's
not really an ambition it's it's just I
find it editorially interesting
what it is it's the newspaper column
ultimately
it is it's that's all I ever think of in
terms of is constantly evolving here now
you're interviewing me I'm thinking it's
a column in this that's all I ever do
um
there's always a column in something
there's a column in him on his phone
look oh he's supposed to be filming it
there's a column everywhere
can I David Cameron broke my tractor the
other day that's a column that's a
headline
[Laughter]
you just borrowed it to go and mow his
Paddock and then never lend a tractor to
an MP never he's not an MP wow
former prime minister where them
Travelers red trousers yeah yes I don't
need to buy red trousers how did he do
much damage blown the engine blew the
engine on the tractor yeah 1961. how do
you do that no well that tracks has been
through and it's like what it's seen
you know it's Cloud field all day it
never thought it would be ended that way
and then all of a sudden David Cameron
jumps on it and it goes bang 200 yards
yeah
so DC is destruction and catastrophe
yeah I honestly thought you'd been hit
by a heat-seeking myself
it was so much smoke
unbelievable amounts of smoke so we're
gonna we're gonna wrap up in a second so
what are you two both doing for the rest
of the day
I'm going to
write the voiceover script for programs
and I will open the door for you and put
you back into that kitchen and then lock
it so I can't get out again yes he likes
it when he yeah when I run their
farmyard haven't you got a newspaper
column to write I haven't today I wrote
one yesterday I'm gonna go and jump on a
tractor and thinking more ways I can
make money
very good
[Music]
so we're here in the barn in Clark's
farm doing the summer of our catch up
with Caleb and Jeremy
it's a very impressive tractor
yeah well for me I I can believe Jeremy
you know for everything he's done and
achieved he's doesn't believe in in
ambition or goals which I found really
astounding but he clearly makes it work
he you know it evolves and he makes it
happen and it makes a lot happen so
however he's doing it he's doing it
bloody well yeah he's also got 10 jobs
as he as he's there not dissimilar to
you you're right how about you without
me what about you with regards to Caleb
um I mean my biggest takeaway from Caleb
is just how enterprising he is but also
how enterprising he always was the idea
of him getting chickens at 13 and then
selling the eggs how many 13 year olds
do we know that that applied and that
enterprising and that entrepreneurial at
that age not many yeah so he's going for
his knee yeah but he's going to be an
amazing role model he's definitely got a
goal for the younger kids he's going to
be an incredible role model and he's got
this goal and he wants his own farm and
that's what he's striving for yeah it's
great thank you for watching or
listening we are Ben and George Ainsley
and this has been performance people and
remember from what we've learned today
dreams won't work unless you do
[Music]